JoJo's Bizarre Adventure, often shortened to JoJo or JJBA, is a shonen and seinen manga series written and illustrated by Hirohiko Araki. It began in December 1986, following the journeys of the Joestar family members across generations.



JOTARO KUJO DATA:
Jotaro Kujo (空条 承太郎, Kūjō Jōtarō) is the protagonist of the third part of the JoJo's Bizarre Adventure series, Stardust Crusaders, and the third JoJo of the series. He also appears as a primary ally in Diamond is Unbreakable and Stone Ocean, and makes a brief appearance as a tertiary character in Vento Aureo. As a result of all his appearances, Jotaro is the most recurring protagonist in the series.
Jotaro is a Japanese delinquent with Japanese roots from his father's side, and half-British half-Italian roots from his mother's side. Jotaro lives an ordinary life until the Joestar Family's old nemesis, DIO, returns. After seeing his mother Holy fall ill due to DIO's reawakening, Jotaro embarks on a journey across the world alongside his grandfather, Joseph Joestar, and a group of friends in order to save his mother and defeat the Vampire once and for all.
Wielding the all-powerful Star Platinum, Jotaro is the first JoJo introduced with a Stand, and is among the most well-known characters of the series. He is the ex-husband of an American woman and father of Jolyne Cujoh, the protagonist of Stone Ocean. 
Jotaro is a 195 cm (6 ft 5 in) tall and muscular man who is often described by other characters as attractive.[15] He has dark hair that constantly blends with his hat, a strong jawline, bold eyebrows, and greenish-colored eyes. He also bears a mild resemblance to his great-great-grandfather, Jonathan Joestar, and his grandfather, Joseph Joestar when he was young.
The superficial theme of Jotaro's attire changes in every JoJo part he appears in. His trademarks are a visored, ornamented cap, torn at the back and blending with his hair, and a roughly mid-calf-length coat with a standing collar and chains attached. His attire was influenced by Babel II, a famous manga of a boy in a school uniform having an adventure in a desert.

